Module 09: Connect your agents using the A2A protocol (#6)
wsilveiranz/logicapps-labs: docs/logicapps-ai-course/02_build_conversational_agents/09-connect-agents-a2a-protocol.md

Reviewer: This module doesn't have any Prerequisites? Usually, this section exists in a tutorial or how-to doc.

---

> title: Connect tools to external services - Module 03

Reviewer: This title appears in SEO results only. Need to update to reflect your lab.

> description: Learn how to integrate Azure Logic Apps conversational agents with external services using the A2A protocol and the official Python SDK.

Reviewer: Why the word "official"? Versus "non-official"?

ms.service: azure-logic-apps
author: nikhilsira
ms.author: nikhilsira
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 08/27/2025
---

# Module 09 - Connect your agents using A2A protocol

> This module explains how to integrate Azure Logic Apps conversational agents with external services using the A2A protocol and the official Python SDK.

Reviewer: Expand new acronyms on first mention.

```suggestion
This module explains how to integrate Azure Logic Apps conversational agents with external services using the Agent-to-Agent (A2A) protocol and the official Python SDK.
```

When you finish this module, you'll achieve the goals and complete the tasks in the following list:

- Understand how conversational agents in Azure Logic Apps align with the A2A protocol for interoperability.
- Discover agents using the agent card and understand its structure and purpose.
- Use A2A-compliant APIs to send messages, retrieve tasks, and stream responses.

> - Authenticate with agents using API keys or App Service authentication (EasyAuth).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Authenticate with agents using API keys or Easy Auth, previously known as App Service Authentication.
```

> - Connect to a Logic Apps agent using the official Python SDK and perform basic interactions.

Reviewer: "Azure Logic Apps"

Reviewer: I don't see this updated.

Author: Apologies, I missed pushing the changes

Reviewer: Still don't see the updates after refreshing the browser.

Author: I think we would need to view the updated commits - the link in this comment takes me to the outdated file

## Conversational agents using A2A protocol

> Azure Logic Apps conversational agents support the [A2A protocol](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/), enabling seamless integration with other AI agents and client applications. In a world where agents are built using diverse frameworks and by different vendors, A2A provides a common language, breaking down silos and fostering interoperability. These agents expose an API surface that abstracts away Logic Apps-specific constructs like workflows and runs, focusing instead on conversational units (messages) and tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Logic Apps conversational agents support the [A2A protocol](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/), enabling seamless integration with other AI agents and client applications. In a world where agents are built using diverse frameworks and by different vendors, A2A provides a common language, breaking down silos and fostering interoperability. These agents expose an API surface that abstracts away Azure Logic Apps-specific constructs like workflows and runs, focusing instead on conversational units, or messages, and tasks.
```

### Key features
- **Interoperability**: Aligns with A2A protocol for compatibility with other platforms.
- **Multi-turn conversations**: Supports back-and-forth interactions.
- **Real-time streaming**: Provides live status updates.
- **Conversational memory**: Maintains context across sessions.
- **Authentication options**: API key and OAuth.

### Goals

> - Easily incorporate Logic Apps agents into multi-agent solutions.

Reviewer: "Azure Logic Apps"

- Replace code-heavy agents with minimal changes.

## Trigger parameters and authentication for conversational agents

### Fields in the conversational agent trigger

- **Agent URL**: All communication with a Logic Apps conversational agent happens through this **Agent URL**, which maps directly to the A2A specification's serviceEndpoint. This URL serves as the entry point for all A2A-compliant API calls, such as message/send, tasks/get, and message/stream. 
- **Agent API key**: The API key (also referred to as the developer key) must be included in the X-API-Key header for any communication with the agent.
- **Name**: User provided name for the agent. Shows up in the `name` property of the Agent Card (explained in next section).
- **Description**: User provided description for the agent. Shows up in the `description` property of the Agent Card (explained in next section).

![Conversational Agent Trigger parameters](./media/10_Connect_your_agents_using_a2a_protocol/A2ATrigger.png)

### Authentication methods

> Logic App conversational agents support two authentication methods:

Reviewer: What are "Logic App conversational agents"? "Logic app conversational agents"?

- **API key-based authentication**: This is the default method. The API key (also referred to as the developer key) must be included in the X-API-Key header for any communication with the agent.
- **App Service authentication (EasyAuth)**: If EasyAuth is configured on the Logic App (Standard), it takes precedence over API key-based authentication. This method is typically used when OAuth flows or on-behalf-of (OBO) scenarios are required, such as interacting with connectors that require user context (explained in [Module 05 — Add user context to your tools](./05-add-user-context-to-tools.md)).

## Agent discovery and agent card

> Each Logic Apps conversational agent exposes an [**agent card**](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#5-agent-discovery-the-agent-card) defined by the [A2A specification](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/), a JSON document that acts as a digital business card. This card is essential for discovery and initiating interaction.

Reviewer: "Azure Logic Apps"

The agent card is hosted at a well-known endpoint `<agent-url>/.well-known/agent-card.json`
> [NOTE]
> The agent card is accessible by API Key or EasyAuth authentication defined above.

Here is a sample agent-card.json for the weather agent:

```json
{
  "protocolVersion": "0.3.0",
  "name": "Weather Agent",
  "description": "An agent that fetches the weather forecast for any given location",
  "url": "https://test-agent-app.azurewebsites.net/api/agents/WeatherAgent",
  "version": "08584457010294671865",
  "capabilities": {
    "streaming": true,
    "pushNotification": false,
    "stateTransitionHistory": false
  },
  "defaultInputModes": [
    "application/json"
  ],
  "defaultOutputModes": [
    "application/json"
  ],
  "skills": [
    {
      "id": "08584457010294671865",
      "name": "WeatherAgent",
      "description": "An agent that fetches the weather forecast for any given location",
      "tags": []
    }
  ]
}
```

### Agent card includes:
- Agent name
- Service endpoint
- Description
- Authentication methods
- Skills and capabilities

> [!NOTE]
> The agent card is generated automatically for every conversational agent.

> ## Logic App Agent APIs

Reviewer: Fix casing.

> Logic App agents expose two groups of APIs:

Reviewer: Fix casing.

- [`tasks/get`](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#73-tasksget): Retrieves the current state (including status, artifacts, and optionally history) of a previously initiated task. This is typically used for polling the status of a task initiated with message/send, or for fetching the final state of a task after being notified via a push notification or after an SSE stream has ended.
- [`message/stream`](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#72-messagestream): Sends a message to an agent to initiate/continue a task AND subscribes the client to real-time updates for that task via Server-Sent Events (SSE). Logic App conversational agents support streaming.

> [!NOTE]
> Our internal chat client (described in [Module 01 — Create First Conversational Agent](./01-create-first-conversational-agent.md)) uses the message/stream API for communicating with the conversational agent.
> Chat clients prefer streaming over polling APIs for the following reasons:
> - Faster Feedback and Reduced Wait Time.
> - Improved Perception of Transparency and Trust.
> - Enhanced User Experience for Long or Complex Outputs.

> ## Connect to a Logic Apps agent from the official Python SDK:

Reviewer: "Azure Logic Apps"

        },
        "parts": [
          {
            "kind": "text",
            "text": "Right now in Seattle, the weather is clear:\n\n- **Temperature**: 68°F (feels like 67°F)\n- **Humidity**: 70%\n- **Wind**: 2 mph\n- **Visibility**: 9.9 miles\n- **Cloud Cover**: Minimal (7%)\n- **UV Index**: Low (0)\n\nNo precipitation is expected for at least 2 hours."
          }
        ],
        "role": "agent"
      },
      "state": "completed",
      "timestamp": "8/25/2025 8:07:37 AM"
    }
  }
}
```

## Conclusion

In this module, we explored how to integrate Azure Logic Apps conversational agents with external services using the A2A (Application-to-Application) protocol. Here's a summary of what we covered:

### Summary of key concepts

- **Conversational agents and A2A protocol**: Azure Logic Apps agents support the A2A protocol, enabling seamless interoperability with other agents and clients (in-built and external).

- **Agent features**: Capabilities include multi-turn conversations, real-time streaming and conversational memory.

- **Agent discovery**: Each agent exposes an agent card—a JSON document that serves as a digital business card for discovery and interaction.

> - **Logic App Agent APIs**: A2A-compliant APIs (`message/send`, `tasks/get`, `message/stream`) support communication with agents. Authentication methods include API key and EasyAuth.

Reviewer: What is "Logic App Agent APIs"? We have "logic app", "Azure Logic Apps", and "logic apps".

---

> title: Connect your agents using A2A protocol - Module 09

Reviewer: Per Edward's module:

```suggestion
title: Connect your agents with A2A protocol - Module 9
```

description: Learn how to integrate Azure Logic Apps conversational agents with external services using the A2A protocol and the A2A Python SDK.
ms.service: azure-logic-apps
author: nikhilsira
ms.author: nikhilsira
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 08/27/2025
---

> # Module 09 - Connect your agents using A2A protocol

Reviewer: Task focus first and per Edward's module:

```suggestion
# Connect your agents using A2A protocol (Module 9)
```

> This module explains how to integrate Azure Logic Apps conversational agents with external services using the Agent-to-Agent (A2A) protocol and the A2A Python SDK.

Reviewer: Put focus on the reader when possible. Also, why should the reader care? What benefit does learning this information provide?

```suggestion
In this module, you learn how to integrate Azure Logic Apps conversational agents with external services by using the Agent-to-Agent (A2A) protocol and the A2A Python SDK.
```

When you finish this module, you'll achieve the goals and complete the tasks in the following list:

- Understand how conversational agents in Azure Logic Apps align with the A2A protocol for interoperability.
- Discover agents using the agent card and understand its structure and purpose.
- Use A2A-compliant APIs to send messages, retrieve tasks, and stream responses.
- Authenticate with agents using API keys or Easy Auth, previously known as App Service Authentication.
- Connect to a Logic Apps agent using the official Python SDK and perform basic interactions.

> ## Conversational agents using A2A protocol

Reviewer: Heading titles need to be task-focused when possible. Customers want to do things that help them solve problems. Here's a better title:

```suggestion
## Communicate between agents and clients with the A2A protocol
```

> Azure Logic Apps conversational agents support the [A2A protocol](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/), enabling seamless integration with other AI agents and client applications. In a world where agents are built using diverse frameworks and by different vendors, A2A provides a common language, breaking down silos and fostering interoperability. These agents expose an API surface that abstracts away Azure Logic Apps-specific constructs like workflows and runs, focusing instead on conversational units, or messages, and tasks.

Reviewer: - Any client app?

- Rather than a "Key features" section, let's move the info to the intro to reduce "info only" sections. A tutorial should make customers read as little as possible. Otherwise, they might stop reading.

Customers don't really care about "features". They care about how to solve problems. The list is also easier to scan as a table. Bold usually reserved for UX elements.

```suggestion
Conversational agent workflows in Azure Logic Apps support the [A2A protocol](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/), which provides seamless integration with other AI agents and client applications. This protocol provides a common language that breaks down silos and fosters interoperability in an environment where various teams and vendors use diverse frameworks to build agents. 

Conversational agents expose an API surface that abstracts away specific Azure Logic Apps constructs like workflows and runs, focusing on conversational units, or messages, and tasks instead. By using the A2A protocol, a conversational agent provides the following benefits:

| Benefit | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Interoperability | Aligns with A2A protocol for compatibility with other platforms. |
| Authentication options | Supports API key and OAuth. |
| Multi-turn conversations | Supports back-and-forth interactions. |
| Conversational memory | Maintains context across sessions. |
| Real-time streaming | Provides live status updates. |

```

> ### Key features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Interoperability**: Aligns with A2A protocol for compatibility with other platforms.

Reviewer: Deleting list and replacing with table in the intro.

```suggestion
```

> - **Multi-turn conversations**: Supports back-and-forth interactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Real-time streaming**: Provides live status updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Conversational memory**: Maintains context across sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Authentication options**: API key and OAuth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Goals

Reviewer: Goals for what? This module? For A2A protocol? Why put this section here?

Author: Removed this section as it seemed redundant

- Easily incorporate Azure Logic Apps agents into multi-agent solutions.
- Replace code-heavy agents with minimal changes.

> ## Trigger parameters and authentication for conversational agents

Reviewer: This heading looks odd without any text before the first subsection. As if something is missing.

Author: Added a text before the first subsection

> ### Fields in the conversational agent trigger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Review trigger parameters for a conversational agent workflow

The following table describes the parameters and their values for the trigger that starts a conversational agent workflow:

```

> - **Agent URL**: All communication with a Logic Apps conversational agent happens through this **Agent URL**, which maps directly to the A2A specification's serviceEndpoint. This URL serves as the entry point for all A2A-compliant API calls, such as message/send, tasks/get, and message/stream. 

Reviewer: - We don't write standalone UX documentation anymore.
Instead, the docs provide this info as part of a task. It's not ideal that there's no task here for the customer to do while reading this info. More difficult and uninteresting when you're not looking at the actual trigger parameters.

- This info is hard to read as a bullet list. Better as a table.

- Where is the A2A specification? Maybe a link?

- As a JSON or code element, where does `serviceEndpoint` appear? I didn't find it at the A2A spec shared earlier.

- "later section", not "next section" because the section isn't literally the next section.

```suggestion
| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| **Agent URL** | The URL through which all communication happens with a conversational agent and serves as the entry point for all A2A-compliant API calls, such as `message/send`, `tasks/get`, and `message/stream`. This URL directly maps to the service endpoint (`serviceEndpoint`) in the A2A specification. |
| **Agent API key** | The API or developer key that the `X-API-Key` header requires for any communication with the agent. |
| **Name** | The agent name that you provide. Appears in the agent card's `name` property, described in a later section. |
| **Description** | The agent description that you provide. Appears in the agent card's `description` property, described in a later section. |
```

> - **Agent API key**: The API key (also referred to as the developer key) must be included in the X-API-Key header for any communication with the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Name**: User provided name for the agent. Shows up in the `name` property of the Agent Card (explained in next section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - **Description**: User provided description for the agent. Shows up in the `description` property of the Agent Card (explained in next section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ![Conversational Agent Trigger parameters](./media/10_Connect_your_agents_using_a2a_protocol/A2ATrigger.png)

Reviewer: - Don't share art across modules. If art gets deleted in one module, this module breaks.
- Fix casing in the file name. Use all lowercase letters and hyphens for spaces.
- Isn't the trigger now named "What a chat session starts", not "A2A Trigger"?
- All alt text must end with a period.
- All alt text must start with "Screenshot shows ....", for example:

```suggestion
![Screenshot shows Azure portal and designer with example conversational agent workflow and trigger parameters.](media/09-connect-agents-a2a-protocol/conversational-agent-workflow.png)
```

> ### Authentication methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Review supported authentication
```

Logic App conversational agents support two authentication methods:

- **API key-based authentication**: This is the default method. The API key (also referred to as the developer key) must be included in the X-API-Key header for any communication with the agent.
- **App Service authentication (EasyAuth)**: If EasyAuth is configured on the Logic App (Standard), it takes precedence over API key-based authentication. This method is typically used when OAuth flows or on-behalf-of (OBO) scenarios are required, such as interacting with connectors that require user context (explained in [Module 05 — Add user context to your tools](./05-add-user-context-to-tools.md)).

> ## Agent discovery and agent card

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn about agent discovery and agent cards
```

> Each Azure Logic Apps conversational agent exposes an [**agent card**](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#5-agent-discovery-the-agent-card) defined by the [A2A specification](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/), a JSON document that acts as a digital business card. This card is essential for discovery and initiating interaction.

Reviewer: How does the customer use this information in the context of this tutorial?
Reshuffling the word order to put the "why care" part earlier.

```suggestion
In Azure Logic Apps, each conversational agent exposes an *agent card* that acts as a digital business card and is essential to discovering the agent and initiating interactions. The agent card is a JSON document that's defined by the [A2A specification](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#5-agent-discovery-the-agent-card).

```

The agent card is hosted at a well-known endpoint `<agent-url>/.well-known/agent-card.json`
> [NOTE]

> > The agent card is accessible by API Key or EasyAuth authentication defined above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can access the agent card by using the API key or Easy Auth authentication described previously.
```

Here is a sample agent-card.json for the weather agent:

```json
{
  "protocolVersion": "0.3.0",
  "name": "Weather Agent",
  "description": "An agent that fetches the weather forecast for any given location",
  "url": "https://test-agent-app.azurewebsites.net/api/agents/WeatherAgent",
  "version": "08584457010294671865",
  "capabilities": {
    "streaming": true,
    "pushNotification": false,
    "stateTransitionHistory": false
  },
  "defaultInputModes": [
    "application/json"
  ],
  "defaultOutputModes": [
    "application/json"
  ],
  "skills": [
    {
      "id": "08584457010294671865",
      "name": "WeatherAgent",
      "description": "An agent that fetches the weather forecast for any given location",
      "tags": []
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### Agent card includes:

Reviewer: Move info into earlier section:

```suggestion
### Agent card includes:
```

> - Agent name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Service endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Authentication methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Skills and capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: Move note to earlier section.

> The agent card is generated automatically for every conversational agent.

## Azure Logic Apps agent APIs

> Azure Logic Apps agents expose two groups of APIs:

Reviewer: I can't tell which are the "two groups"? Is something missing?

```suggestion
Agents in Azure Logic Apps expose two groups of APIs:
```

Author: I had removed this in another commit - the comment made was on an outdated version

        "messageId": "e3f0c616b79344c4a7b74b221c7e7077",
        "metadata": {
          "timestamp": "8/25/2025 8:07:34 AM"
        },
        "parts": [
          {
            "kind": "text",
            "text": "What is the weather like in Seattle?"
          }
        ],
        "role": "user",
        "taskId": "08584454976335169641388432536_08584454976335162897442324792CU00"
      }
    ],
    "id": "08584454976335169641388432536_08584454976335162897442324792CU00",
    "kind": "task",
    "status": {
      "message": {
        "kind": "message",
        "messageId": "4b23483dd98d43b78d82cbd4f1b4c780",
        "metadata": {
          "timestamp": "8/25/2025 8:07:36 AM"
        },
        "parts": [
          {
            "kind": "text",
            "text": "Right now in Seattle, the weather is clear:\n\n- **Temperature**: 68°F (feels like 67°F)\n- **Humidity**: 70%\n- **Wind**: 2 mph\n- **Visibility**: 9.9 miles\n- **Cloud Cover**: Minimal (7%)\n- **UV Index**: Low (0)\n\nNo precipitation is expected for at least 2 hours."
          }
        ],
        "role": "agent"
      },
      "state": "completed",
      "timestamp": "8/25/2025 8:07:37 AM"
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: Tutorials don't include "Conclusion" or "Summary" sections, which just repeat information that the customer has already seen. Only whitepaper-type articles have such sections.

You should include either a "##Related content" section with links to other modules or to the docs.

Author: Added related content and removed redundant conclusion

When you finish this module, you'll achieve the goals and complete the tasks in the following list:

- Understand how conversational agents in Azure Logic Apps align with the A2A protocol for interoperability.
- Discover agents using the agent card and understand its structure and purpose.
- Use A2A-compliant APIs to send messages, retrieve tasks, and stream responses.
- Authenticate with agents using API keys or Easy Auth, previously known as App Service Authentication.
- Connect to a Logic Apps agent using the official Python SDK and perform basic interactions.

## Conversational agents using A2A protocol

Azure Logic Apps conversational agents support the [A2A protocol](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/), enabling seamless integration with other AI agents and client applications. In a world where agents are built using diverse frameworks and by different vendors, A2A provides a common language, breaking down silos and fostering interoperability. These agents expose an API surface that abstracts away Azure Logic Apps-specific constructs like workflows and runs, focusing instead on conversational units, or messages, and tasks.

### Key features

> - **Interoperability**: Aligns with A2A protocol for compatibility with other platforms.

Reviewer: A blank line should appear after headings, paragraphs, and so on.

Author: Ack. Added blank line after every heading and paragraph

## Agent discovery and agent card

Each Azure Logic Apps conversational agent exposes an [**agent card**](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#5-agent-discovery-the-agent-card) defined by the [A2A specification](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/), a JSON document that acts as a digital business card. This card is essential for discovery and initiating interaction.

> The agent card is hosted at a well-known endpoint `<agent-url>/.well-known/agent-card.json`

Reviewer: Why or how is the endpoint "well-known"? By who?

Author: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_URI:
A well-known URI is a [Uniform Resource Identifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) for [URL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL) path prefixes that start with /.well-known/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the JSON document for the agent card hosted at the [well-known URI](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8615.html) endpoint:

 `<agent-url>/.well-known/agent-card.json`
```

> > [NOTE]

Reviewer: Blank line before a note.

> > [NOTE]

Reviewer: Correct syntax is:

> [!NOTE]

> > - Improved Perception of Transparency and Trust.

Reviewer: Fix caps in this bullet list.

> - Enhanced User Experience for Long or Complex Outputs.

> ## Connect to an Azure Logic Apps agent from the A2A Python SDK:

Reviewer: No punctuation after a section heading.

> In addition to communicating with the agent via the internal chat client, we can communicate with the Logic Apps conversational agents from external chat clients and SDKs.

Reviewer: Fix "Logic Apps". We should never have just "Logic Apps".

This section shows how to use the [A2A Python SDK](https://github.com/a2aproject/a2a-python) to connect to a Logic Apps agent using an API key, fetch the agent card, send a message, and poll for task results.

> <div style="max-height: 400px; overflow-y: auto; border: 1px solid #ccc; border-radius: 4px;">

Reviewer: No HTML formatting permitted.

> - **Agent discovery**: Each agent exposes an agent card—a JSON document that serves as a digital business card for discovery and interaction.

Reviewer: Don't use em dashes. Rewrite using a comma.

```suggestion
- **Agent discovery**: Each agent exposes an agent card, which is a JSON document that serves as a digital business card for discovery and interaction.
```

> - **Azure Logic Apps Agent APIs**: A2A-compliant APIs (`message/send`, `tasks/get`, `message/stream`) support communication with agents. Authentication methods include API key and EasyAuth.

Reviewer: Previously, you used "Azure Logic Apps agent APIs" with lowercase "agent". Shouldn't this be the same?

The product docs use "Easy Auth", not "EasyAuth".

- **Trigger parameters and authentication**: The default trigger behavior, agent URL mapping to the A2A specification, and authentication precedence were discussed.

- **Python SDK integration**: The A2A Python SDK allows clients to connect to agents, fetch agent cards, send messages, and poll for task results.

> Please stay tuned for updates on this modules as we'll cover support for more client SDKs and capabilities using the A2A protocol.

Reviewer: Why use "please" here? Are we asking the reader to do something inconvenient? We also don't talk about the future because people interpret this as a promise.
